release: v0.9.0 (#1042)
apollographql/router: CHANGELOG.md

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

> # [v0.9.0] - 2022-05-13
> ## ❗ BREAKING ❗

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [v0.9.0] - 2022-05-13
## 🎉 **The Apollo Router has graduated to its General Release (GA) phase!** 🎉

We're so grateful for all the feedback we've received from our early Router adopters and we're excited to bring the Router to our General Availability (GA) release.

We hope you continue to report your experiences and bugs to our team as we continue to move things forward.  If you're having any problems adopting the Router or finding the right migration path from Apollo Gateway which isn't already covered [in our migration guide](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/migrating-from-gateway), please open an issue or discussion on this repository!

## ❗ BREAKING ❗
```

### Remove the agent endpoint configuration for Zipkin [PR #1025](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1025)
Zipkin only supports the collector endpoint URL configuration.

The Zipkin configuration changes from:

```yaml
telemetry:
  tracing:
    trace_config:
      service_name: router
    zipkin:
      collector:
        endpoint: default
```

to:

```yaml
telemetry:
  tracing:
    trace_config:
      service_name: router
    zipkin:
      endpoint: default
```

### CSRF Protection is enabled by default [PR #1006](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1006)
A [Cross-Site Request Forgery protection plugin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/CSRF) is enabled by default.

This means [simple requests](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#simple_requests) will be rejected from now on (they represent a security risk).

The plugin can be customized as explained in the [CORS and CSRF example](https://github.com/apollographql/router/tree/main/examples/cors-and-csrf/custom-headers.router.yaml)

### CORS default behavior update [PR #1006](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1006)

> The CORS allow_headers default behavior changes from:

Reviewer: In general, we try to code-tick things to indicate they are code or configuration:

```suggestion
The CORS `allow_headers` default behavior changes from:
```

  - allow only `Content-Type`, `apollographql-client-name` and `apollographql-client-version`
to:
  - mirror the received `access-control-request-headers`

This change loosens the CORS related headers restrictions, so it shouldn't have any impact on your setup.

> ## 🚀 Features ( :rocket: )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🚀 Features ( :rocket: )
```

These emojis seem duplicative and look kind of odd when rendered.   Is this from our templates?

### CSRF Protection [PR #1006](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1006)
The router now embeds a CSRF protection plugin, which is enabled by default. Have a look at the [CORS and CSRF example](https://github.com/apollographql/router/tree/main/examples/cors-and-csrf/custom-headers.router.yaml) to learn how to customize it. [Documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/configuration/cors/) will be updated soon!

### Helm chart now supports prometheus metrics [PR #1005](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1005)
The router has supported exporting prometheus metrics for a while. This change updates our helm chart to enable router deployment prometheus metrics. 

> Configure by updating your values.yaml or by specifying the value on your helm install command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure by updating your values.yaml or by specifying the value on your helm install command line.
```
```suggestion
Configure by updating your values.yaml or by specifying the value on your `helm install` command line.
```

> e.g.: helm install --set router.configuration.telemetry.metrics.prometheus.enabled=true <etc...>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g.: `helm install --set router.configuration.telemetry.metrics.prometheus.enabled=true <etc...>`
```

> Note: prometheus metrics are not enabled by default in the helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Prometheus metrics are not enabled by default in the helm chart.
```

### Extend capabilities of rhai processing engine [PR #1021](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1021)

> Rhai plugins can now interact more fully with Responses. Including body and header manipulation where available. Closures are now supported for callback processing and Subgraph services are identified by name. There is more documentation about how to use the various rhai interfaces into the router and we now have six examples of Rhai scripts doing various request and response manipulations.

Reviewer: Is `Responses` a struct or something? Or should it be lower cased?

```suggestion
Rhai plugins can now interact more fully with `Responses`. Including body and header manipulation where available. Closures are now supported for callback processing and Subgraph services are identified by name. There is more documentation about how to use the various rhai interfaces into the router and we now have six examples of Rhai scripts doing various request and response manipulations.
```

Reviewer: Same question about `Subgraph`

```suggestion
Rhai plugins can now interact more fully with Responses. Including body and header manipulation where available. Closures are now supported for callback processing and `Subgraph` services are identified by name. There is more documentation about how to use the various rhai interfaces into the router and we now have six examples of Rhai scripts doing various request and response manipulations.
```

## 🐛 Fixes ( :bug: )

### Delete the requirement of jq command in our install script [PR #1034](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1034)
We're now using `cut` command instead of `jq` which is more standard.

### Configuration for Jaeger/Zipkin agent requires an URL instead of a socket address [PR #1018](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1018)

> The router now support URL for a Jaeger or Zipkin agent. So you are able to provide this kind of configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The router now supports URL for a Jaeger or Zipkin agent. So you are able to provide this kind of configuration:
```

```yaml
telemetry:
  tracing:
    trace_config:
      service_name: router
    jaeger:
      agent:
        endpoint: jaeger:14268
```
### Fix a panic in Zipkin telemetry configuration [PR #1019](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1019)

> Using the reqwest blocking client feature was panicking due to incompatible asynchronous runtime usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `reqwest` blocking client feature was panicking due to incompatible asynchronous runtime usage.
```

### Improvements to Studio reporting [PR #1020](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1020), [PR #1037](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1037)
Studio reporting now aggregates at the Router only. This architectural change allows us to move towards full reporting functionality.

### Field usage reporting is now reported against the correct schema [PR #1043](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1043)

> Previously this was empty, new code will uses API schema hash.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously this was empty. It now uses API schema hash.
```

### Add message to logs when Apollo usage reporting is enabled [PR #1029](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1029)
When studio reporting is enabled the user is notified in the router logs that data is sent to Apollo.

### Check that an object's `__typename` is part of the schema [PR #1033](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1033)
In case a subgraph returns an object with a `__typename` field referring to a type that is not in the API schema, as with usage of the `@inaccessible` directive on object types, the whole object should be replaced with a `null`.

## 🛠 Maintenance ( :hammer_and_wrench: )

### OpenTracing examples [PR #1015](https://github.com/apollographql/router/pull/1015)

> We now have complete examples of OpenTracing usage with Datadog, Jaeger and Zipkin, that can be started with docker-compose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have complete examples of OpenTracing usage with Datadog, Jaeger and Zipkin, that can be started with `docker-compose`.
```
